# Academic Databases and Research Publications

Instructor: Assist. Prof. Oratai Jongprateep (Dept. of Material Engineering)

This topic is to find information related to method, theory and technological advancements.

## Popular searching tools

For example, Google.

This technique is sometimes unreliable and may not be appropriate to cite academically.

To determine whether sites are reliable:

- Look up the author
- Look up the publisher (domain owner), such as the domain suffix
- The date of publishing
- The site's main purpose

## Academic database

Academic database is

- Reliable (peer reviewed)
- Relevant (complex search conditions)
- Accessible (can download for offline access)

Contents of academic database:

- Journals
- Thesis
- Article
- Magazines
- E-books
- Newsletter

### Journals

Journals are composition of articles from research. The target group of journals are fellow people in the same field.

Most journal articles are:

- Peer-reviewed
- Focus on current development

KU library subscribe to multiple databases accessible from <lib.ku.ac.th>

#### ScienceDirect

This database have more than 12 million piece of works. It is easy to use.

#### Components of journal articles

- Citation information: How to cite this article. Publisher, journal name, volume, year, page
- Title of the article
- Author
- Affiliation: Author's workplace
- Abstract
- Introduction: Background of the topic
- Method
- Result
- Discussion
- Conclusion
- Acknowledgements: Who funded this research
- References

#### How to read journal article

Possible ways:

- Read abstract and conclusion first
- Read introduction first for background and objective
- Looking at all figures
- Focus on interesting sections

## Other sources

- Encyclopedias
- Dictionaries
- Handbooks

## Starting your project

1. Have some basic information on your topic
   - Basic theories
   - Experts
   - Concepts and keywords
   - Identify research questions
   - Facts and stats
   - Related sources
2. Find more information on academic databases
