# Computer & Network Security

Instructor: Assoc. Prof Surasak Sanguanpong, Assist. Prof. Pirawat Watanapongse

## Research area

- Internet security 
- Network monitoring and measurement
- Software security

## Pre-requisite

- Computer networking, esp. TCP/IP
- Operating system
- Database system
- Unix command line skill
- System administration skill

## Objectives

- Technical and Theoretical knowledge in computer and network security, esp. in upper-layer network and application security
- Able to fundamentally analyze computing system security
- Experience in design and setting up for computer and network security protection

## Tentative schedule

- Introduction to Computer and Network security
- Elementary Cryptography
- Security in Network and Protocols
- Security Standard and Best Practice
- Security Tools
- Security in Applications

# Introduction to Security in Computing

Security (ความมั่งคง ปลอดภัย): the state of being free from danger (to person), damage (to property), loss or threat

Information Security (ความมั่งคง ปลอดภัยของสาระ): protecting information and information systems from *unauthorized* access, use, disclosure, modification, disruption, inspection, recording or destruction. (Note: this does include securing the storage, only for the data)

Multi layer defense (defense in depth): the act of using multiple layers of defense. For example, a house can be secured by locks, bolts, walls, etc. altogether.

The principle of adequate protection: "Computer items must be protected to a degree consistent with their value"

Computing system consists of hardware, software, data and people using the system.

## Threat, controls and vulnerability

**Threat** is blocked by **control** of **vulnerability**. If threat finds vulnerability, you're screwed. So, you should *reduce threats*, *eliminate vulnerability* or *prevent them from meeting*. This is *control*.

Example of attacks:

- DoS is to increase the threat level. Eventually, it will hit the vulnerability.
- Some attacks hit the vulnerability directly without raising threat level.

Example of threats:

- Interception (ดัก): redirect things
- Interruption: block things
- Modification: transform things
- Fabrication: create fake things

An attack can be several threats combined.

**The goal of security is to create CIA:**

- Confidentiality: ability to control access
  - Encryption
  - Access control: limit access
  - Authentication: determine identity/role
    - Client *identify* to server
	- Server *authenticate* the client
  - Authorization: determine accessible resource using access control and authentication data
- Integrity: "complete and correct"
  - Backup
  - Checksum
  - Error correcting code
- Availability: make available
  - Physical protection
  - Redundancy

Method of defense:

- Prevent
  - Block the attack
  - Closing vulnerability
- Deter
  - Make the attack harder
- Deflect
  - Make another target more attractive
- Detect
  - Discover attack in real time or offline.
- Recover
