# Cryptography

Cryptography make bad actors unable to read files they have obtained. It can be used to implement "integrity".

Recommended reading: Understanding Cryptography by Christof Paar and Jan Pelzl

## The field of cryptography

- Cryptology: the art and science of keeping secrets
  - Cryptography: making hard to read representation
    - Cipher
	  - Symmetric cipher
	    - Block cipher: big
		- Stream cipher: continuous
	  - Asymmetric cipher
	- Protocol: how to get relevant information from partner
  - Cryptoanalysis: reversing cryptography
    - Classical Cryptoanalysis
	  - Mathematical analysis
	  - Brute-force
	- Implementation Attack
	- Social Engineering

Related: steganography: making the representation hard to find

## Ciphers
### Symmetrical cipher

    Alice --> Encryption --> Insecure channel --> Decryption --> Bob
	             ^                                   ^
			    Key -------> Secure channel ----------

    d(y, k) = d(e(x, k), k) = x

(x = plaintext, y = ciphertext, k = key)

Alice wants to send message to Bob over an insecure channel. Alice use the encryption function on the *plaintext* to get *ciphertext*. Alice then send the ciphertext to Bob. Bob use the decryption function to read the message.

Oscar, an opponent cannot read the message.

### Asymmetrical cipher

A key pair have 2 keys. Each key's encryption function can only be decrypted by its pair. Usually one key is called private key, and another is public key.

### Hybrid scheme

Most of the current protocol use asymmetric and symmetric ciphers together, because symmetrical ciphers are fast.

For example, asymmetrical ciphers can be used to verify identity and exchange keys. After that symmetrical ciphers can be used.

## Cryptanalysis

Ciphers cannot be mathematically proved that it is secure. Good ciphers should take very long time (and/or costly) to crack.

Kerckhoff's Principle: A crypto system should be secure even if the attacker know everything about the system, except the key.

## Historical ciphers
- Substitution ciphers: Replace each letter with another letter
- Caesar cipher: a variant of substition cipher

### Block cipher primitive

1. Confusion: the encryption make the key and the ciphertext unable to be correlated. Usually this is done by substitution
2. Diffusion: spreading of plaintext symbols to make distribution uniform. One of the way is to swap bits (bit permutation)

These are combined several times (rounds). Ciphers using this method is called "product ciphers"

## DES

- Symmetrical cipher developed by IBM
- 56 bits key
- 64 bits block size
- Further developed into 3DES
- 16 identical rounds + initial/final permutation round. Each round use a key derived from the given key
- The rounds are designed as Feistel Network
