## DES

Next week: quiz and lab on OpenSSL

### 2DES

If we define 2DES as:

- `C = E(E(P, K), K)`, it would use the same key so not much more security.
- `C = E(E(P, K1), K2)`, would be weakness to known plaintext attack equivalent to 57 bits key
  - To attack, the attacker who know `P` brute force the encryption algorithm to find `K1`, and decryption algorithm to find `K2`. When both efforts matches we will know both keys. (Meet-in-the-middle method)

### 3DES

3DES is defined as `C = E(D(E(P, K1), K2), K3)`. The decryption step is defined for compatiblity with DES (by using `K1` = `K2` = `K3`). The key size is 2^56 * 2^56 * 2^56 = 2^168.

If we used meet in the middle attack defined earlier, it would only solve one step and still have effective 2^112 key size.

## AES

- Triple DES is slow
- NIST organized a contest in 1997
  - Symmetrical cipher
  - 128-bit data, 128/192/256-bit key
  - Faster than Triple DES
  - Reference implementation in C/Java
- 15 candidates in June 1998
- Evaluated by
  - Security from cryptoanalysis
  - Cost (performance)
  - Characteristics
  - Ease of implementation in software and hardware
  - Flexibility
  - Attacks on implementation
- Rijndael was selected in Oct 2000

### Rijndael

- Designed based on iterative cipher (substitution-permutation network)
- 128-bit data, 128/192/256-bit key
- Each AES round are almost identical
  - Pre-round transformation
  - Round 1...N (each step running with different round keys from the key expansion algorithm)
  - The last round is different
- The round is based on key size
  - 128 bits key -> 10 rounds
  - 192 bits key -> 12 rounds
  - 256 bits key -> 14 rounds
- Implementations do it like this
  1. Generate round keys (key expansion)
     - Each round keys is 32 bits
  2. Perform initial round
     - Data is viewed as 4x4 *bytes* matrix
  3. Perform rounds
  4. Perform final round (no mixcolumns)

### Feistel cipher

Feistel cipher is used in DES design. It operate on half of the data, so the cost is halved. Also, the decryption process is the same encryption process with the key scheduling run in reverse.

### Substitution-permutation network

In this cipher design, first the data is XOR-ed with the key, then substituted from table lookup. After that the data is permutated.

The final round is a special case; there is no permutation step.

This network operates on the whole block at the same time.

This network doesn't have mathemetical function involved, unlike Feistel.

### AES Security

- Most known attacks on DES are already tested on AES
- Larger key = harder to brute force
- No statistical/differential/linear attacks known on AES
- Implementation is simple and efficient
