# Asymmetrical encryption

When designing with crytography, it should be assumed that the attacker known everything but the key. i.e. The algorithm is public.

## Number theory
### Relatively prime

Two numbers are said to be relatively prime if they have no common divisors.

### Fermat's Little Theorem

- $a^{p-1} = 1 (mod p)$
  - If p is a prime and $gcd(a, p) = 1$ (a and p are relatively prime)
- $a^p = p (mod p)$

### Euler Totient Function (ϕ)

- When doing mod n, the output can be 0..n-1
- 0..n-1 is called complete set of residuals
- The relative primes to n in the complete set is called reduced set of residues.
- The Euler Totient Function (ϕ(n)) is the size of the reduced set of residues.
- To compute that, we need to count the number of residues removed.
- For prime numbers, ϕ(p) = p - 1 (as all residues but 0 cannot divide p by definition of prime)
- For semiprimes, ϕ(p.q) = (p-1) * (q-1)

### Euler's theorem

- $a^{ϕ(n)} = 1 (mod n)$
  - For any a, n that are relatively prime

### Prime distribution

It is said that prime occurs roughly every ln n integers. So, on average only $0.5 ln(n)$ numbers need to be tested to find prime of size n.

### Primitive root

Consider $a^m=1 (mod n)$. It is true for $m = ϕ(n)$. However, there can be smaller m as well.

If there is none, then a is called a primitive root.

### Discreet logarithm

Find i where $b = a^i (mod p)$. The notation is $i = dlog_{a} b (mod p)$. There is always an answer if a is a primitive root

## Public key cryptography

- Use two keys - public & private
- Cannot derive private key out of public key
- Provides Confidentiality and Authentication, not Integrity.
  - Anyone can generate message using the public key, so the message could be substituted
- Used in 3 categories:
  - Encryption (provide secrecy)
  - Digital signature (provide authentication)
  - Key exchange

### RSA

The most used implementation of public key cryptography is RSA, by Rivest, Shamir and Adlerman

- To encrypt, obtain the public key PU = {e, n} and compute $C = M^e mod n$ where 0<=M<n
- To decrypt, use the private key PR = {d, n} and compute $M = C^d mod n$
- To generate the key pair:
  - Find two large prime numbers: p, q
  - Compute $n = p*q$. From Euler's Totient Function, $ϕ(n) = (p-1)(q-1)$
  - Randomly select the encryption key e where 1<e<ϕ(n) and e is a relative prime of ϕ(n)
  - Solve e*d = 1 mod ϕ(n) where 0<=d<=n for d
  - The public key is PU = {e, n}
  - The private key is PR = {d, n}

