# Review

## Introduction of Security

We want C-I-A to happen simultaneously.

- Confidentiality: The ability to ensure who know what
- Integrity: Complete and correct
- Availability: Authorized people must be served

Also we might need

- Non-repudiation: If you do it, it cannot be denied
- Authentication: Match action to entity

- Vulnerability: inner property of security system
- Threat: potential to attack
- Control: seperation of vulnerability and threats

## Introduction to Cryptography

- Cryptology
  - Cryptography
    - Symmetric Ciphers
	  - Block cipher
	  - Stream cipher
	- Asymmetric Ciphers
	- Protocol
  - Cryptoanalysis

In standard communication, the channel is assumed to be insecure. Therefore, cryptography is needed to secure the communication.

Properties:

- Confusion: Cannot correlate plain text to ciphertext
- Diffusion: Ciphertext should not be distinguishable from random data

## DES

DES is a symmetrical block cipher. Symmetrical ciphers use same key for encryption and decryption, which must be kept secret.

DES block size is 64 bits. Internally, DES use a Feistel network structure running in multiple rounds.

DES is considered obsolete, and 3DES was developed by doing 3 DES in a row. The definition is E(D(E(P, k1), k2), k3). If k1=k2=k3, it is backward compatible with DES.

## AES

AES replaces DES. It is a symmetrical block cipher. The block size is 128 bits. The key size can be 128/192/256 bits.

AES is a substitution-permutation network.

- Key expansion: prepare key from the given key
- Initial round
- Rounds
- Final round

## Modes of Operation

When the same data block and key are repeated, background attack can happen. As the result will be exactly the same the attacker can know that data is repeated.

- Electronic Codebook (ECB): Each block are encrypted independently. Vulnerable to background attack
- CBC
- CFB
- OFB
- CTR

## Asymmetrical ciphers

Asymmetrical ciphers use modulo mathematics.

## Hybrid encryption

Hybrid encryption protocol use both asymmetrical and symmetrical encryption.

Asymmetrical encryption is used to send the symmetrical encryption key, called the session key.

## Diffie-Hellman algorithm

(Pictures, can't write here)

## Message authentication code (MAC)

MAC is to ensure that the message is authentic. It is based on hash functions

- HMAC: Popular
- CMAC (Cipher-based MAC): Encrypt the message, select leftmost bits

## Hash

Hash is a one way function (cannot be reversed). It have a short, fixed length.

- MD5
- SHA1
- SHA2 (SHA-224/256/384/512)
- SHA3
- RIPEMD-128/160/256/320

Hash functions use the Merkle-Damgard scheme.

One way of cracking hash function is brute forcing. Rainbow table is a precomputed brute force result.

Good hash functions should be resistant to:

- Preimage resistant: Hash must be one way. Cannot find message that correlate to a hash (can be a different message)
- Second preimage resistant: If the message and hashed value is known, different message with the same hash value cannot be found
- Collision resistant: It should be difficult to find two different messages that have the same hash value

## Digital signature

To verify data, data is hashed, then the hash encrypted with asymmetrical encryption.

## Trust model

To verify that the public key belong to a specific version, two ways can be used:

- Web of trust: Transitive trust
- Trusted authority and path of trust (CAs)

## SSL/TLS

- SSL/TLS use different port than normal (eg. HTTP use 80, HTTPS use 443)
- When connecting, the cipher is negotiated
- Then the server sent their certificate, and the client send their public key (can be unsigned)
