# Rational Thinking

- Rational Thinking - thinking by using reason properly, based on facts, evidences, justified beliefs
- Most rational thinking is logical thinking

Example:

- Buses are usually late when they are broken down. My bus is late today -> Therefore, it must be broken down
- The traffic is especially terrible today. Either there is an accident ahead or a university has a commencement ceremony today. There is no accident ahead. -> Therefore, there must be a commencement ceremony today.
- A robin must have a red breast. That bird doesn't have a red breast. -> That bird can't be a robin.

## Interferring

- Inferring is a process where we proceed from the known to the unknown, or from established knowledge/accepted idea to a new one.

Rule of inference:

- All A are B, all C are A. -> All C are B
- If A, then B. Not B. -> Not A.

Question: Why study logic/logical thinking to begin with?

## Argument

- Argument: to debate, contest verbally. Argument is to use inference to establish a truth.
- Group of statements that consists of one or more premises and a conclusion that follow from the premises
- Argument is not explaination; argument is to establish the truth, explaination is to give an account of an supposed truth.
- Argument is one way to persuade people. We can also threaten, bribing, etc.
- There are two kinds:
  - Inductive: given good reasons -> probable
    - Eg. If I kick a ball up, it will comes back down. I guess that when I kick it up again it will go back down again.
	- Concluding from specific examples to a general conclution.
	- Types:
	  1. Enumerative Induction: concluding after seeing some members of the group
	     - Eg. 54% of students in this faculty are female. Therefore, 54% of students in this college are female.
	  2. Analogical Induction: concluding from similar thing
	     - Eg. A has properties F, G, H and Z. B has properties F, G, H. Therefore, object B has property Z.
	  3. Hypothetical Induction: If the hypothesis H were true, it would provide the best explaination of P. Therefore, H is probably true.
    - Inductive argument is not valid. Even if all premises are true, the conclusion can be false
	- But they can give us good reasons for believing their conclusions if the conditions are met.
	- Good qualities:
	  - Strength: the argument is strong if could be establish that its conclusion will probably be true if all of its premise were true.
	  - Congency: Whether all of the premises are true.
  - Deductive: given valid form -> certain.
    - Eg. Newton's law said that everything that goes up will go down. Therefore, if you kick the ball up it must come down.
	- Starts from premises with general proposition, then applies it to a specific instance
	- Types:
	  1. Syllogism (จัดประเภท): All humans are mortal. Socrates is a man. Therefore, Socrates is mortal.
	  2. Enthymeme (ลัดข้อความ): Socrates is a man. ...(omitted).... Therefore, Socrates is mortal. 
	  3. Conditional: If all that exists is matter in motion, then there are no disembodied spirits. All exists in matter is in motion. Therefore, there are no disembodied spirits.
    - Good qualities:
	  - Validity: The conclusion comes from the premises
	  - Soundness: The argument is valid, and premises are true.

Example:

- Columbus believed that he would reach India by sailing westbound from Europe.
- Columbus conjectured that he would never have reached India if the earth were flat
- He concluded that he reached India, and the world is round.

Structure and indicators of argument:

- Premises 1..n: since, become, for, as, inasmuch as, for the reason that, owing to, given that, seeing that, maybe inferred from, as indicated by, due to the fact that
- Therefore, conclusion: therefore, hence, accordingly, ...

## Fallacies

Fallacies are mistakes in reasoning

1. Unacceptable premises
   - Begging the question: using conclusion as a premises (circular argument)
     - Eg. Happiness is the highest good for humans since other goods are lower than happiness. (why other goods are lower than happiness?)
   - False dilemma
     - In reasoning of "Either P or Q, not Q therefore P" it could be that the "Either P or Q" is incorrect.
	 - Eg. She goes to school by bus or train. She doesn't go by train, therefore she go to school by bus. However, there could be other choices as well.
2. Insufficient premises
   - Hasty Generalization
     - Eg. I drank a bottle of Singha beer thrice and found it is bitter. It would be possible that in the future every bottles of Singha are bitter.
   - Faulty Analogy
   - False Cause
      - Eg. Superstition. Every time my eye twitch, bad things happen. Therefore, eye twitching is a bad omen.
   - Slippery Slope
      - Eg. If we allow pornography, raping will happen everywhere.
3. Irrelevant premises
   - Appeal to the Person: This person said it, so it must be good
   - Appeal to the Authority: This knowledgable person said it, so it must be good
   - Appeal to Tradition: Whatever our ancestors are doing, they are good
   - Appeal to Pity: Ask to believe because of pity.
   - Appeal to Force: If you don't believe, you will be punished.
   - Appeal to Fear: If you don't believe, bad things will happen to you.
   - Appeal to Ignorance: If we don't know about that, then it is believable.
   - Appeal to the Mass: Believe it because lots of people are believing that.
   - Equivocation: Two different meanings of words are used.

Example:

- Happiness is the end of life. The end of life is death. So, happiness is death.

## Exercise

Identify kind of fallacy

1. Nobel Prize winner Linus Pauling says we should take massive doses of vitamin C every day. Therefore, massive dose of vitamin C must be good for you.
   - Appeal to the Authority.
2. You should believe in God because if you don't you will go to hell.
   - Appeal to Fear/Force
3. Quartz crystals cure colds because after weaing a quartz crystal around my neck, my cold went away.
   - False cause
4. I believe in God because the Bible says that God exists, and I believe in the Bible because God wrote it.
   - Begging the question
5. Only men can speak rationally. No woman is a man. So, no woman can speak rationally.
  - Equivocation

## Homework

Due on Mon Feb 6 to TA. Two sets:

1. Exercise 1: Identifying arguments
   - Identify the conclusion
   - Identify which ones are not argument
2. Exercise 2: Identify 20 passages whether they are deductive or inductive arguments.
