# Creative Thinking & Rational Thinking
## De Bono's Thinking hats

1. White Hat: Look for facts, figures, numbers, information
2. Red Hat: Use feelings, intuition and emotions
3. Black Hat: Use judgement and caution. How things could go wrong? What's the weaknesses of this idea?
4. Yellow Hat: Use reasons to find why something work, and what is its benefits
5. Green Hat: Use creativity, alternatives, proposals, interesting things, provocations and changes
6. Blue Hat: Meta thinking of other hats (eg. think that we need to apply some other hat to the idea)

### Quiz

Which hat do you wear when you ask these questions?

1. What information or facts do we have and what information are missing? White
2. How am I reacting to this? Red
3. What does not fit about this? Black
4. What are the good points? Yellow
5. What makes this idea different from all other ideas that we have already disuccsed? Green
6. Let's decide...? Blue
7. How do I feel about this right now? Red
8. What are some other ways to solve this problem? Green
9. How are we going to get information that we need to make the decision? White
10. What is relevant? Blue
11. What is wrong with this idea? Black
12. Why will this idea work or is worth doing? How this will help us? Yellow
13. How cold or warm? Red
14. Might there be other explaination? Green
15. What are the weakness of this proposal? Black
16. What have we discussed so far/what should be discussed next? Blue
17. What is the number? White
18. What is the value proposition of this idea? Yellow
19. What is the worse-case scenario? Black
20. What is the best-case scenario? Yellow

### Activity 1

Wear Bono's six hats to find out whether your college should close down the cafeteria for six months to air-condition it.

## Technique from Improvisation

Use the Yes, And technique to establish the "base reality" of a scene. After that we continue with "game" of the scene.

For example, if we establish the scene as pattern "3" "3, 6" "3, 6, 9". The game is "adding 3 to the previous number".

Question: Think about 2 creativity-enhancing techniques that you have learned: Bono's thinking hats and How to find the game in improvisation: what parts do you think involve reational thinking and which parts involve creative thinking?

- Some hats of Bono's are rational thinking
- Improvisational is creative thinking

# Chapter 3: Life Understanding

- Life understanding of oneself
- Life understanding of other people

- Life education: knowledge about the nature of life
- Nature of life: study about ideal, virtues and morality of life

## Truth of life

1. Life consists of body, mind and wisdom
2. Life relates to environment: matters, nature, human being
3. Life cannot proceed without these six parts

The lecturer teach in a way that I can't transcribe it down effectively, so you're on your own XD
