# Art of Communication

Instructor: Dr. Patcharavadee Sriboonruang (Dept. of Agricultural Extension and communication, Faculty of Agricultural)

- Definition of Communication: Transference of information from one person to another
  - There must be at least two people - sender and a receiver
  - The role of the people will change frequently.
- Key to communication is to be understood

## Comunication problems

- Misunderstanding/language barrier
  - Improve language skill by listening, reading, practice
- Talk/read too fast/slow
  - Try to talk/read slower/faster
- No confident/shy
  - Mirror practice
  - Try to be more confident
- No smile
  - Try to smile
- Limited vocabulary
  - Improve language skill by reading

## Levels of communication

1. Twitter
2. Facebook status
3. Facebook message
4. Email
5. SMS
6. Instant messaging
7. Letter
8. Phone
9. Video chat
10. Face to face talking

### Social media communication

1. Meeting & conference
2. Media sharing
3. Location service
4. Broadcasting

### People remember

- 10% of what they read
- 20% of what they hear
- 30% of what they see
- 50% of what they see and hear
- 80% of what they say
- 90% of what they say and do

## Communication model

Aristotle:

1. Speaker
2. Speech
3. Audience

Lasswell:

- Who? (Communicator)
- Says what? (Message)
- By which channel? (Channel)
- To whom? (Receiver)
- With what effect? (Effect)

Berlo:

- Source
  - Communication skills
  - Attitudes
  - Knowledge
  - Social System
  - Culture
- Message
  - Elements
  - Content
  - Treatment
  - Structure
  - Code
- Channel
  - Seeing
  - Hearing
  - Touching
  - Smelling
  - Tasting
- Receiver
  - Same as source

Shannon-Weaver:

- Information source
- Transmitter (Encoder)
- Channel (+ Noise source)
- Receiver (Decoder)
- Destination

## Objective of communication

Sender                            | Receiver
----------------------------------|--------------
To inform (one way communication) | Understand
To persuade                       | Dispose or decide
To educate                        | Learn
To entertain                      | Enjoy
To socialize                      | 

## Thailand 4.0

1. Thailand 1.0 was agricultural
2. Thailand 2.0 was light industry
3. Thailand 3.0 was heavy industry
4. Thailand 4.0 will be "work less for more" with creativity and technology
